So you weren't aware of any secret?
A lot of conversations about it.
Speculation about, are they still around?
My freshman year, I wondered if the Corps commander was one of them.
My sophomore year, I wondered.
My junior year, I knew he wasn't because I knew him very well.
In fact, it was Jack Lunsford, our chemistry department.
Of course, I knew Hagler was not.
All right, that sophomore year, Aggie football began to improve.
Yeah.
How did things...
you and the Corps and others, how did that affect y'all?
Well, it was well received.
We began to take some pride in it, and Bear was very much a presence on campus at the time.
What impression did he make on students?
Well, you'd see him at Yale practices.
He would be once or twice at Yale practice or midnight Yale practice.
He would be there and introduce the team and make speech and stuff.
And he was strong.
He could get you committed to it.
One of the things he would do, though,
and I didn't realize this until my junior and senior year, if he had a big game on Saturday and practice wasn't really going the way he thought it should, he would arrange for a spontaneous yell practice.
The way he arranged it was to call up the head yell leader.
Of course, head yell leader was on core staff, so we'd know these things.
He'd say, you need to show up, your guys need to show up at the athletic dorm at 1030 or something like that.
All of a sudden, the whole campus would
fallout for spontaneous yelp practice.
And whatever the bear wanted.
The bear got.
Who was president in those years?
Well, my freshman and sophomore year, Manny Morgan, was president.
He left the university and Tom Harrington, who had been president, was then chancellor, became president again.
He held both jobs.
By January of my senior year, Earl Rudder came as vice president.
I think he was executive vice president.
Everybody knew he was going to be president and he began to act like president.
Really?
Yeah.
So that was, even students were where?
Yeah, that was our perception that he was going to be president.
In fact, I think that was a common understanding at the time.
I don't know if it was in the newspapers even or not, but we met him.
He began to make decisions.
He lived in the president's house.
Harrington lived in where Madeline lives now, which is the whole home of the chancellor.
Do you remember what impression Mr. Rutter made on you at that time?
Yeah, of course, we had read about him and heard about him, and we all heard the stereotype, he's not an academic, and blah, blah, blah.
That was less important to us than it seemed to be to other people.
Being in the Corps, you're always wondering, is the Corps going to die and all that stuff?
And we knew that at that point it was optional, and there was all sorts of paranoia about its future.
There was even a little episode in the courts about letting in women during that time frame.
So we were all curious about his support for the Corps.
And here's this retired general appointed.
We said, well, we got him made.
And then we came in.
He made it pretty clear that he's a university president.
He's not commandant.
And he met with Hagler and me back over in the dorm, too, where we were all located.
And he was pretty strong in making us understand what his expectations were.
And he wasn't automatically going to come out and defend the Corps.
We had to look after ourselves and stuff.
He was impressive.
And was it clear that he planned to take charge?
Yeah, he had that demeanor about him.
Of course, when you're young that way, you're easily impressed by somebody with his background.
Were you all aware about his World War II?
Yeah, that was very common knowledge to all of us.
Back up to Morgan.
Did you all know or see anything?
Did you all have much impression of him?
We saw him, but I didn't have the opportunity to have any up-close conversations with him.
I learned more about him since I've been back than I did then.
Because I've heard that some of his plans
became reality later.
Yeah.
There's a gentleman named Bob Kamm.
Did you encounter Bob Kamm in your life?
Bob, of course, left was a dean here, dean of the basic division or something, I forget his exact title, but he was brought here by Morgan, one of Morgan's chief lieutenants.
And when Morgan left Comm State a couple more years, and then he went to Oklahoma State as the Dean of Arts and Sciences, later became VP for Academic Affairs, then president.
When I became provost up there, I get this letter from Bob Comm saying, I remember you.
I couldn't believe it, but he did.
The man's got a steel trap for a mind.
I was having dinner with him a few weeks before I came back down here, and he started describing for me my roommate my senior year.
I can't remember his name.
He was from LaGrange, and he described his mannerisms and so forth, and he nailed it directly.
Amazing man.
But he described Morgan as a real fine person.
a visionary, had great ideas for the university, was too progressive for A&M at that time.
He also was the early example of the awkwardness of the structure we have here, of a chancellor and a president sitting in the same proximity, neither of which is willing to relinquish running this university to each other.
He told, Morgan told people, I can't get along with this Chancellor.
He's interfering in my business.
And so I think Morgan is, I don't know what happened to him when he left here, but I think he doesn't get credit for some of the ideas.
He, in fact, I think would have brought women here earlier.
That's what I've heard.
He probably would have gotten the Corps in right proportion to its importance earlier.
Not being an Aggie, not having the right chemistry on the board probably made it more difficult.
You had a car your sophomore year.
How did that change life?
It added a lot of flexibility and got me a lot of friends too.
Parking was not good, even for sophomores.
Parking was always a problem.
Freshmen had to park enormously great distance away, and sophomores wasn't much better.
Did y'all already have them nicknamed the Hempstead lot and the Navisota lot?
Yeah, I think so.
I think so.
And what kind of vehicle was this?
Well, mine was a car I wish I had now.
It was a 51 Oldsmobile 88.
It was my mother's car.
This was like 55.
And she bought a new Buick.
And this was a yellow car with black fender skirts.
This thing would attract attention today.
And it had good rear fenders, too.
It had... No, no, those come later.
It didn't have the dramatic fins on it.
It was really a very fast car.
It had a high dramatic transmission in it, which my mother did how to shift gears.
All right, now you're still dating this young lady, and she was where in school?
Well, I met her in high school my freshman year, and then she was at SMU a freshman that next year.
And how often did you go back and forth?
As often as possible.
Really, every weekend.
I forget if sophomores did not have complete freedom the number of times they left, like juniors did, but every chance I did.
Came down from most ballgames.
And was she allowed to, when she came down here for an SMU football game, was she allowed to root for the Mustangs?
She was quiet about that.
I think she really did.
But yeah, I guess she was allowed to.
On athletics, what big games do you remember with greatest joy in the Bryant years?
We had never beaten Texas in Memorial Stadium.
In my junior year, we did, and that was a big deal.
And what did you all do to celebrate?
Partied.
We took over Austin that night, and there were people ripped up grass from Memorial Stadium, and probably some still have it.
It was quite a big deal.
That particular year, we were ranked high in the nation, very high in the nation.
And Brian had gotten us in trouble.
I don't think we, my recollection, I may mix up my years, but I think that was the year we couldn't go to a bowl game.
I think that's right.
Do you remember any negative out-of-town football experiences?
Oh, yeah.
My senior year, we had a big fight up at TCU.
Oh, really?
Yeah, yeah.
Describe that.
Well, yeah.
What we believed was that the freshman football team at TCU had been told to bring home some souvenirs, and a lot of Aggies lost their hats and some of their boots and their rings and stuff.
And it was kind of an unfortunate situation.
In fact, a lot of it came back.
The university got very aggressive in punishing the perpetrators.
This happened after the game?
after the game, as people were leaving the ball game.
There were these thugs basically out there, jumping people and taking parts of their uniforms, sabers and their rings.
I don't remember other than that anything that particularly comes up.
There were silly things of stealing the Baylor Bears and stuff like that.
During a court trip, march down Main Street, Congress Avenue, and so forth, there never were problems, were there?
None that I recall.
Again, these things are not things I think about a lot.
Two of those years, I was on a court staff, and we went through first, what happened later.
I don't have any recollection of that.
I've never heard anybody mention anything except positive things from court trips and the generosity of people to provide free places to sleep and things like that.
Now, so on a Dallas or Fort Worth court trip, you always had a date.
The
Where did your buddies, where did they locate dates if they didn't have a... Well, we'd try to get them dates.
Like my girlfriend would get them dates.
You know, like, you know, she went to... I met her when she was a senior in high school.
Probably every girl in her class had the opportunity to date an Aggie.
And there was just a network that developed out of that.
Now, did the Tessies come down?
To a degree.
I get the impression that wasn't as much of a traffic as it might have been in different generations.
But, you know, in those days, the homecoming queen was a Tessie, and that still was going on.
In some years, I've heard about either a train load or two or three bus loads.
There may have been, but I don't remember that happening.
I think by the time I came along, there were enough cars, and the trains were less reliable, and I think there was a different way of doing it.
The generation before, trains were more important.
How was the homecoming queen selected?
I think there were just nominations, photographs, interviews.
The MSC folks I think did it.
I was never involved in it.
You as a corps leader did not go up there on any... I think Hagler did.
I think as corps commander, I think he was the escort of the homecoming queen.
In fact, he was...
very close to his girlfriend then, the lady who's now his wife, that he got married his senior year, early in the second semester.
And I recall some tension over the idea he was escorting this homecoming queen.
And it was duty versus country, so to speak.
I do see some humor in that.
That's good.
The...
No, we've already done that.
Where would they go on dates?
Did you ever have a summer job that was profession-oriented?
I had a number of them.
At the end of my sophomore year, I went to work for Southwestern Bell, my brother's influence.
I worked for them for two summers.
Doing what?
It's kind of a junior engineer kind of job.
In Dallas?
In Dallas, yeah.
With my 17 years on that board,
Pounding in my heart great gratitude.
What was it?
What kind of well company did it seem to be I?
To be perfectly honest with you, it didn't seem very dynamic and exciting, extremely conservative, very cautious.
Of course, at that point, they were a real public utility, totally regulated, and they were very much what appeared to me to be a public utility attitude.
But it's unfair for me and the situation I was in to assess that.
I met some good people, and they were kind to me.
You see, I saw it as AT&T is broken up.
Before then, our headquarters was in St.
Louis.
We were to bring our wives, always.
We would have social events beginning at 5 o'clock on Friday evening.
Line sometimes was flown from Paris, France that day.
We would have an elegant, elegant dinner.
Then there was almost a free gift at every meeting of considerable cost.
Then the next morning, while we were meeting, our wives were taken...
maybe to a Neiman's-like fashion show or something.
Well, as soon as that break comes and Ed Whitaker takes over, all of that stops because he says the public will not stand for that.
Until then, every
corporate official in St.
Louis had a chauffeur-driven limo every day back and forth.
He said, no more.
We will provide a chauffeur-driven vehicle for you when you are going to represent this corporation at a social event where alcoholic beverages are served,
So there'll be no hand that you had maybe had too many drinks.
And so there was a complete turnaround like that.
Let's see, the Corps did not have any sharp changes during those four years, did it?
Only the management of this optional situation was not required.
You know, my freshman year was the first year that it was not required.
And managing that, I'm sure, created some special problems at the time.
All right.
Who was the commandant in those days?
A man named Joe Davis.
In fact, I didn't realize he was still alive.
He died this last year.
He lived up at Tarleton.
Please describe him as you knew him.
He was not a regular Army officer.
He was in the Texas Guard, I think.
I found him straightforward and kind of tough.
Not a warm, friendly person in the sense that you might think of someone that was interested in you personally and supportive of you.
He was very businesslike.
He had a guy named Wilkins.
Taylor Wilkins was his assistant commandant.
He was the guy we dealt with all the time.
More of a warm person, but tough.
You didn't cross the line with him.
And he was a guy that I would see as kind of the mentor of the two.
Davis was a little more remote, a little more difficult to reach.
Of course, even in 1954, he seemed quite elderly to me.
But Wilkins was the one you all worked with.
Wilkins was a guy we dealt with on a daily basis.
When you're a junior on core staff, somebody from one of that set of people had to be in Wilkins office every day to sort of deal with things they want us to do.
Was there a dean of students then?
Hannigan would have that time.
Hannigan came a little later.
I know it.
There was a guy named Penberthy who associated here with intramurals and stuff, but he was more like a dean of students person.
So he's between Comm and... Well, Comm wasn't really dean of students.
Comm was an academic dean, more like a dean of academic affairs, dean of the basic division or something like that.
My recollection, Comm was an academic person.
As far as you were aware, to whom did Davis report?
I thought he reported to the president.
I don't know.
I think he probably did.
And their offices were in the Trigon.
Yeah, definitely.
During your four years, did the core numbers change?
Not much, and the enrollment didn't change much.
There were probably more people my freshman year than there were my senior year because the wave of the Korean people and so forth had passed out pretty fast.
Well, we didn't worry about it any much.
I now know that everybody was worried desperately we weren't growing the same way that UT was growing, for example.
When did you even have an ambition to be on Corps staff?
In almost all my life.
I've never sort of looked at things like that and lusted after them.
My freshman year, I was in the same dorm with Corps staff, so I knew all about it.
They were dorm 12.
They eventually moved to dorm 2, but I knew of it and who the people were and so forth and so on.
I thought I'd probably be a first sergeant and stuff like that.
Jack Lunsford, who eventually became the Corps commander, was from my same outfit.
So his sophomore year, he pays me.
His junior year, he's on Corps staff.
So I know him and he's there.
Then he's selected as sergeant major and then cadet colonel of the Corps.
So I think he knew me and probably that had some influence in the selection process.
When did you become aware that you might be on this track, whether you wanted to be or not?
I think it was probably the second semester of my sophomore year.
At that point, my academics were really getting quite good, and I was getting some recognition within the Corps.
What confirmation?
How did somebody inform you?
Well, they had an interview process then, which I think they made something similar now.
But you're interviewed by the juniors on core staff, rising seniors, and how you conducted yourself in that interview was basically it.
They decided who they invited.
What kinds of questions were there?
chicken kind of questions, you know.
They'd ask you public affairs kind of issues, stuff in the newspapers, current events kinds of things.
They would ask you how you deal with hypothetical situations.
Back in the context of one of your earlier questions, I can remember Lunsford tossing out on the table, he says, what do you think of this?
I picked it up and it was a TT card.
He'd gotten out of the archive somewhere.
The idea was to make me think for a moment all these guys were in this secret organization.
Were there any questions you recall that were clearly inappropriate?
No.
As far as you think back on it, was the interview real?
That is, they hadn't made the decision in advance.
No, I think the interview was real.
Do you have any idea how many others were interviewed?
Well, I think there were about five of us on core staff.
It was much smaller then than it is now.
They probably interviewed 10 or 15 people.
So the odds were two or three to one.
Yeah, yeah.
For example, I didn't get on immediately.
About a week after they made the selection, one of the guys announced he was getting married, a guy named Don Loomis, who I've seen since that time, and went to Harvard like a lot of those guys did.
And I was kind of the first alternate, and I got on the first day.
And how were you informed that you had been selected?
Launchford sent a message over to come see me.
And then he told you a word about it.
Yeah, he told me a word about it.
Shocked me, surprised me.
And this is near the end of your sophomore year.
Sophomore year, yeah.
Late in the spring of my sophomore year.
And then you and Hegler began to room together.
The next year.
The next year, yeah.
When we came here for Fish Week, that's when we moved in together.
And basically, core staff and the core leadership had to manage that orientation with that next set of freshmen.
And it was, as far as anyone knew, quite clear that future Corps commanders would probably come from this.
Absolutely.
The idea that they would go outside of that set of people was revolutionary.
It was predetermined that one of those five, if that was the right number, would be Corps commanders.
And in your era, was there a mix of Army and Air Force?
In fact, it may have been six.
It may have been three and three.
Were you aware of any token appointments of any sort?
The head yell leader was seen by most as a token appointment.
There was always somebody from the athletic department.
Somebody from the athletic unit was a token corps commander, a token corps staff person.
Oh really?
Yeah.
And we had a guy from, that was a day student, but I think that was, there was an interesting guy that was actually in the class of 57, but he laid out a year and was very close to some people on corps staff that was around our junior year as a junior.
Describe the life, the routine, then, of a Corps junior on Corps staff.
Well, you did all the work, an enormous amount of work.
What did it include?
Well, you had an assignment.
Like, I was the intelligence sergeant, which is kind of a funny name.
And there was a senior that was the Corps intelligence officer, and I basically did all his work for him and looked forward to the time I'd be a senior and had somebody do my work for me.
To give you an example, his job was cadet court.
He was responsible.
And this was a very important kind of self-governance process, disciplinary procedure.
And the sergeant really had to keep all the records, court records, and maintain those and produce those in case there were appeals and things like that.
So it turned out to be a fairly large responsibility.
Of course, you didn't have convenient tape recorders.
You didn't have word processors and things.
So the physical delivery of that
record was very burdensome.
You also took turns being sergeant major because they had not picked the selection of sergeant major and met your corps commander.
So that was done late in the year.
So maybe for six weeks or so you would be the sergeant major.
And your job was to show up in Colonel Moken's office sometime that morning to get your orders for the rest of the day.
And about how many hours per week did... Oh, it was enormous.
Probably 30 hours a week.
You were doing something relating to that responsibility.
And you had to somehow do your academics and go to class.
It was a good exercise in time management.
And the other members of the Corps staff had similar time commitments?
Absolutely.
Everybody worked like Trojans.
That year, what was John Hagler's task?
Well...
I forget.
I'm not sure exactly what his assignment was.
And the Corps commander your junior year?
It was Jack Lunsford, Professor of Chemistry.
Jack Lunsford, distinguished professor of chemistry.
Were there any big unusual events during that junior year that a Corps leader needed to be?
Oh, it was actually a pretty quiet year.
You had the usual kind of good bull events where you'd make the commandant mad.
What would that be?
Well, both my junior and senior year, the reveille we had that time was ill-mannered.
The protocol in those days, she was trained to march in front of the band.
When the band came on the field for 30 seconds or so, she would prance out in front like she was trained to do, but usually distracted.
And then she would run to the sidelines, bite people, officials, anybody that had to be out there.
And in her excitement, she'd typically defecate on Kyle Field.
And then Monday morning, the president would call up as mad as everything about, can't you guys control that dog?
You know, this is embarrassing.
Of course, when she did it, the Corps would stand up and yell.
There was even gambling going on about where she might leave it.
I'll never forget my senior year, there was a guy named Rat Ray.
He's actually worked for the Atlanta Falcons now.
He's been a trainer in the NFL for years and years.
He had to come out and pick it up because the players were going to come out and play the second half.
This was not what you wanted to leave out there.
And we gave him unbelievable trouble about that.
He was out there with the entire Corps Cadets on his feet, giving him a hard time because he's removing the stuff.
And I saw him a couple years ago, and he remembers that very clearly.
Let's see, and no problems, no tragedies during that junior year.
None that come to mind right now.
No, but I mean like the death of the... Nothing comparable to that.
And bonfire was going routinely.
Well, bonfire was going routinely, but my senior year it fell down.
It was one of the times in history that it fell, I guess three times that we were conscious of.
It was over behind Duncan.
Yeah, nobody was on it.
It fell early Sunday morning, and no harm.
It was shoved back up in a short period of time.
And during your four years, all four years, it was teepee style, one log high.
Yeah.
The only thing unusual was that there was finally some mechanization brought in.
I think my senior year, there was a freshman who was academically having the worst time.
The poor guy was just really struggling, but he happened to own a front loader, and he was very popular.
The Yale leaders found him and protected him, and he sort of broke the paradigm out there of the only people getting near the stack were the upperclassmen.
Before that, how were the logs stood up?
In a very dangerous way.
They had these big long sticks with a fork on the end of them.
And the kids would pick them up and you'd get the fork under them and basically walk them up and then drop them over.
Didn't use a rope to pull them up.
And the center pole was stuck in the ground.
And it was no taller than necessary.
That's right.
To hold the outhouse on top.
And the outhouse in those days was an outhouse.
And how was it procured?
Improperly.
You know the story.
People would go out and steal one.
And then the president would get a call.
I presume he'd act shocked that we'd do such a thing and probably hunt it, but discovered to discover later that it had been burned up.
What I was told by one man...
who married one of the, what's the family that owns the land at the Northgate?
Yeah, I don't know.
They still own much of the real estate.
Anyway, this would have been about 1928.
Culpeper?
No, not Culpeper.
They owned down that way.
Anyway, he said during that era that if you wanted a new outhouse, you secretly made the Corps aware to come steal yours, and you complained to the president,
He paid for your new one, and you got a better outhouse.
Well, that's a degree of sophistication I didn't know about.
And he said that that was the way they got it.
Now, was there a special outfit that was to get the outhouse?
Yeah, I think it was the jocks, but don't quote me on that.
I'm not sure.
You probably know.
No, I don't know.
But I think there was one unit whose job was to get the outhouse.
And it was always painted orange in some way.
Decorated in a disgusting way about UT.
Let's see.
And throughout your four years, silver taps would have been held comparatively infrequently.
Yes, definitely.
Because of the fewer, smaller student body.
Smaller student body, fewer cars, less high-speed driving, highways wouldn't support it.
Just the nature of the taps.
Do you remember any indication of anything other than respect for silver taps?
I've never heard of any.
And it was held at exactly the same way?
Exactly the same place, exactly the same protocol.
The only change I saw when I came back was the discipline about lights.
When you go back to the door now, you see the lights coming back on.
But in the old days, the campus, the total campus was totally blanked out.
It stayed that way the next time.
Student intelligences in Utah.